add tutorial for semantic search with byte quantized vector and Cohere embedding model (#2127)
opensearch-project/ml-commons: docs/tutorials/semantic_search/conversation_search_with_byte_quantized_vector.md

# Topic

> > This tutorial doesn't explain details about byte-quantized vectors. Read this [Byte-quantized vectors in OpenSearch](https://opensearch.org/blog/byte-quantized-vectors-in-opensearch/) to learn more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This tutorial doesn't explain byte-quantized vectors in detail. For more information, see [Byte-quantized vectors in OpenSearch](https://opensearch.org/blog/byte-quantized-vectors-in-opensearch/).
```

> This tutorial explains how to build semantic search with [Cohere Embedding model](https://docs.cohere.com/reference/embed) and byte-quantized vectors in OpenSearch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows how to build semantic search using the [Cohere Embed model](https://docs.cohere.com/reference/embed) and byte-quantized vectors in OpenSearch.
```

> Cohere embedding model v3 supports more `embedding_types`, this tutorial uses `"int8"` to work with byte-quantized vectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cohere Embed v3 model supports several `embedding_types`. This tutorial uses the `int8` type for byte-quantized vectors. 
```

> Note: Replace the placeholders that start with `your_` with your own values.

Reviewer 2: I would suggest that the your_xxx placeholders be emphasized somehow in the code samples, e.g., in italic or boldface or something.

Author: It will pollute the REST API sample request by doing this.  I think we should be good to leave as is.

# Steps

> Cohere embedding model v3 supports different `input_type`. From Cohere [doc](https://docs.cohere.com/reference/embed)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cohere Embed v3 model supports several input types. This tutorial uses the following input types (from the Cohere [documentation](https://docs.cohere.com/reference/embed)):
```

> > - `"search_document"`: Used for embeddings stored in a vector database for search use-cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - `search_document`: Used for embeddings stored in a vector database for search use cases.
```

> > - `search_document`: Used for embeddings stored in a vector database for search use cases.

Reviewer 2: These should both be quoted, or neither quoted.

Author: good catch, will fix

> > - `"search_query"`: Used for embeddings of search queries run against a vector DB to find relevant documents.

Reviewer: IMHO, these descriptions from Cohere are a little hard to understand. Can it be something like:
- `search_document`: Specifies the document vector embeddings stored in a vector database that can be searched.
- `search_query`: Specifies the embeddings of search queries you can use to search documents in a vector DB.

Author: @tianjing-li , can you help review ?

Reviewer 3: We also have the following docs if they help clarify their use cases: ```input_type="search_document": Use this when you have texts (documents) that you want to store in a vector database.
input_type="search_query": Use this when structuring search queries to find the most relevant documents in your vector database.

Author: Thanks @tianjing-li , can you share the doc link ?

Reviewer 3: https://docs.cohere.com/docs/embed-api#the-input_type-parameter here you go

> We will create two models in this tutorial:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will create two models in this tutorial:
```

> - one model with `search_document` input type for ingestion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A model used for ingestion with the `search_document` input type 
```

> - one model with `search_query` input type for search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A model used for search with the `search_query` input type 
```

## 1. Create embedding model for ingestion

> Create connector with `search_document` input type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a connector with the `search_document` input type:
```

        }
    ]
}
```

> Use connector id from the response to create model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the connector ID from the response to create a model:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register?deploy=true
{
    "name": "Cohere embedding model for INT8 with search_document input type",
    "function_name": "remote",
    "description": "test model",
    "connector_id": "your_connector_id"
}
```

> Note the model id, it will be used in step 2.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note the model ID; you'll use it in step 2.1.
```

> Test model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test the model:
```

> Note the model ID; you'll use it in step 2.1.

Reviewer 2: I would follow the same language as the previous case: Note the model ID <<from the response>>; you'll use it in step 2.1.

Author: sure

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_embedding_model_id/_predict
{
    "parameters": {
        "texts": ["hello", "goodbye"]
    }
}
```

> Sample response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sample response:
```

```
{
    "inference_results": [
        {
            "output": [
                {
                    "name": "sentence_embedding",
                    "data_type": "FLOAT32",
                    "shape": [
                        1024
                    ],
                    "data": [
                        20,
                        -11,
                        -60,
                        -91,
                        ...
                    ]
                },
                {

>                     "name": "sentence_embedding",

Reviewer 4: I think it's worth mentioning in the explanation that even though the `inference_results.output.data_type` says `FLOAT32`, its not representative of the embeddings defined in the connector (int8)

Author: make sense

                    "data_type": "FLOAT32",
                    "shape": [
                        1024
                    ],
                    "data": [
                        58,
                        -30,
                        9,
                        -51,
                        ...
                    ]
                }
            ],
            "status_code": 200
        }
    ]
}
```

## 2. Ingest data

### 2.1 Create ingest pipeline

```
PUT /_ingest/pipeline/pipeline-cohere
{
  "description": "Cohere embedding ingest pipeline",
  "processors": [
    {
      "text_embedding": {
        "model_id": "your_embedding_model_id_created_in_step1",
        "field_map": {
          "passage_text": "passage_embedding"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: This should say something like: the response simply acknowledges that the request has been executed.

### 2.2 Create KNN index with byte-quantized vector

> Refer to https://opensearch.org/blog/byte-quantized-vectors-in-opensearch/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to [this blog](https://opensearch.org/blog/byte-quantized-vectors-in-opensearch/).
```

```
PUT my_test_data
{
  "settings": {
    "index": {
      "knn": true,
      "knn.algo_param.ef_search": 100,
      "default_pipeline": "pipeline-cohere"
    }
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "passage_text": {
        "type": "text"
      },
      "passage_embedding": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 1024,
        "data_type": "byte",
        "method": {
          "name": "hnsw",
          "space_type": "l2",
          "engine": "lucene",
          "parameters": {
            "ef_construction": 128,
            "m": 24
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> Ingest test data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ingest test data:
```

```
POST _bulk
{ "index" : { "_index" : "my_test_data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "OpenSearch is the flexible, scalable, open-source way to build solutions for data-intensive applications. Explore, enrich, and visualize your data with built-in performance, developer-friendly tools, and powerful integrations for machine learning, data processing, and more." }
{ "index" : { "_index" : "my_test_data"} }
{ "passage_text" : "BM25 is a keyword-based algorithm that performs well on queries containing keywords but fails to capture the semantic meaning of the query terms. Semantic search, unlike keyword-based search, takes into account the meaning of the query in the search context. Thus, semantic search performs well when a query requires natural language understanding." }

```

## 3. Semantic search

> Let's create another embedding model with `search_query` input type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create another embedding model with the `search_query` input type:
```

        }
    ]
}
```

> Use the connector id from response to create model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the connector ID from response to create a model:
```
